Edits to pgd column level conflicts/doc 287 PR5848 (#5944)
EnterpriseDB/docs: product_docs/docs/pgd/5/consistency/column-level-conflicts/03_timestamps.mdx

This approach is simple and, for many cases, it's correct, for example, when the conflicting rows modify non-overlapping subsets of columns. Its simplicity can, though, lead to unexpected effects.

For example, if an `UPDATE` affects multiple rows, the clock continues ticking while the `UPDATE` runs. So each row gets a slightly different timestamp, even if they're being modified concurrently by the one `UPDATE`. This behavior, in turn, means that the effects of concurrent changes might get "mixed" in various ways, depending on how the changes performed on different nodes interleaves.

Another possible issue is clock skew. Where the clocks on different nodes drift, so the timestamps drift. This clock skew can induce unexpected behavior such as newer changes being discarded because the timestamps are apparently switched around. However, you can manage clock skew between nodes using the parameters [bdr.maximum_clock_skew](/pgd/latest/reference/pgd-settings/#bdrmaximum_clock_skew) and [bdr.maximum_clock_skew_action](/pgd/latest/reference/pgd-settings/#bdrmaximum_clock_skew_action).

> <!--second sentence needs clarification>

Author: ```suggestion

```

### `column_commit_timestamp`

You can also use the actual commit timestamp specified with `column_commit_timestamp` as the conflict detection method. This approach has the advantage of using the commit time, which is the same for all changes made in an `UPDATE`.

!!! Note
Statement transactions might be added in the future, which will address issues with mixing effects of concurrent statements or transactions. Still, neither of these options can ever produce results equivalent to commit order.
!!!

## Inspecting column timestamps

The column storing timestamps for modified columns is maintained by triggers. Don't modify it directly. It can be useful to inspect the current timestamp's value, for example, while investigating how a conflict was resolved.

!!! Note 

> The timestamp mapping is maintained by triggers, and the order in which triggers execute matters. So if you have custom triggers that modify tuples and are executed after the pgl_clcd_ triggers, the modified columns aren't detected correctly.

Author: ```suggestion
The timestamp mapping is maintained by triggers, and the order in which triggers execute matters. If your custom triggers modify tuples and are executed after the pgl_clcd_ triggers, the modified columns aren't detected correctly.
```

Author: Can you add a conclusion sentence to this note to indicate what the best practice is to avoid this?

!!!

> <!-- having a hard time following the logic here>

Author: ```suggestion

```

!!!

## Inspecting column timestamps

The column storing timestamps for modified columns is maintained by triggers. Don't modify it directly. It can be useful to inspect the current timestamps value, for example, while investigating how a conflict was resolved.
The column storing timestamps for modified columns is maintained by triggers. Don't modify it directly. It can be useful to inspect the current timestamp's value, for example, while investigating how a conflict was resolved.

!!! Note 
The timestamp mapping is maintained by triggers and the order in which triggers execute matters. So if you have custom triggers that modify tuples and are executed after the pgl_clcd_ triggers, the modified columns aren't detected correctly.
The timestamp mapping is maintained by triggers, and the order in which triggers execute matters. So if you have custom triggers that modify tuples and are executed after the pgl_clcd_ triggers, the modified columns aren't detected correctly.
!!!
<!-- having a hard time following the logic here>
The functions that follow are useful for inspecting timestamps.

> These functions are useful for inspecting timestamps:

Author: I would not introduce subsections with a colon. I ordinarily prefer "these" to "the following," but when referring to subsections, I think this works bettter.
